DOCS-10670-ibm-troubleshooting-guide-kt (#1412)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: ibm-mq/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/ibm-mq-troubleshooting.adoc

> = Troubleshoot IBM MQ Connector- Mule 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Troubleshoot IBM MQ Connector - Mule 4
```

> To troubleshoot Anypoint Connector for IBM MQ (IBM MQ Connector), become familiar with the information about enabling verbose logging, troubleshooting acknowledgment issues, troubleshooting MQ stopped consuming messages, troubleshooting redeployment errors when using binding mode, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To troubleshoot Anypoint Connector for IBM MQ (IBM MQ Connector), become familiar with the information about enabling verbose logging, troubleshooting acknowledgment issues, troubleshooting MQ consumption stoppage messages, troubleshooting redeployment errors when using binding mode, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.
```

== Enable Verbose Logging

Sometimes you are not sure why the application is failing and you require a better understanding of what is going on in the app's interaction with the MQ server.

To gather detailed logs:

* Use the configuration file to increase the logging level on the server side.

> * Enable verbose logging for JMS Connector and MQ packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the configuration file to increase the logging level on the server side.
* Enable verbose logging for JMS Connector and MQ packages:
```

> +
> . Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.
```

. Open your application's project name.
. Open the *src/main/resources* path folder.

> . Open the *log4j2.xml* file inside the folder.

Reviewer: file and folder names should be formatting in mono ` `
GLOBAL; I will stop marking

> . If the following line is already in the *log4j2.xml* file, uncomment it to enable it; otherwise, add it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If the following line is already in the `log4j2.xml` file, uncomment it to enable it; otherwise, add it:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <AsyncLogger name=“com.mulesoft.connectors.ibmmq” level=“DEBUG”/>
    <AsyncLogger name=“org.mule.jms.commons” level=“DEBUG”/>
----

== Troubleshoot Acknowledgment Issues

There are several ways an application setup can be inconsistent in terms of message acknowledgment.
You can configure the session acknowledgment for an application as:

* *IMMEDIATE*
* *AUTO*
* *MANUAL*
* *DUPS_OK*

> When you set the session acknowledgment to *IMMEDIATE*, the message gets acknowledged as soon as it's received. Do no mix *IMMEDIATE* acknowledgment with *Ack* or *Recovery session* operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set the session acknowledgment to *IMMEDIATE*, the message gets acknowledged as soon as it's received. Do not mix *IMMEDIATE* acknowledgment with *Ack* or *Recovery session* operations.
```

> When you set the session acknowledgment to *AUTO*, the *On New Message* source takes control of the acknowledgment when the event finishes, or the session recovers when an error throws while processing the event. Adding a manual acknowledgment or session recover in an application with *AUTO* acknowledgment leads to duplicate operations on a channel.

Reviewer: "when an error throws" or "when an error is thrown"? See Line 59.

Reviewer: session recover > session recovery

> When you set the session acknowledgment to either *MANUAL* or *DUPS_OK*, check that every path of the flow execution gets a message acknowledgment or a session recover. Otherwise, a message can leak and lead to an unresponsive consumer once the max depth of the unit of work is reached.

Reviewer: "a session recover"? "recover" is not a noun; what is the noun object for this term?
"...or the session recovers."

Reviewer: "leak"? I've not seen this used yet.

Reviewer: once > when, if

To resolve this issue:

> Take a detailed look at the flow design and be sure that every message gets acknowledged or the session recovers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a detailed look at the flow design and be sure that every message is acknowledged or the session recovers.
```

Reviewer: Note that this is not worded the same as in Line 42, which specifies that every path receives a message acknowledgment, while this specifies that every message is acknowledged. Clarify.

> == Troubleshoot MQ Stopped Consuming Messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Troubleshoot MQ Message Consumption Stoppages
```

> Usually when MQ stopped consuming messages is related to a large number of unacknowledged messages. When you have a Mule app that has an *On New Message* source or *Consume* operation with manual acknowledgement of messages and not every path of the message has the proper acknowledgement or session recover, the Mule app can lead to an unresponsive consumer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, MQ message consumption stoppages are related to a large number of unacknowledged messages. When your Mule app has an *On New Message* source or *Consume* operation with manual acknowledgement of messages, and not every path of the message has the proper acknowledgement or session recovery configuration, consumers can become unresponsive.
```

To resolve this error:

> Check the depth of unacknowledged messages on the broker side and review the application logic.

Reviewer: Do we have two separate lines for this element because in some cases the resolution requires more than one sentence? It's unnecessary in this topic set, but maybe is in the template for other situations?

> === Troubleshoot Redeployment Errors when Using Binding Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Troubleshoot Redeployment Errors When Using Binding Mode
```

> When using binding mode for connections, the driver loads a JNI resource. The JNI resource can be loaded only once and when the application is redeployed an error is thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using binding mode for connections, the driver loads a JNI resource. Because the JNI resource can be loaded only once, when the application is redeployed, an error is thrown.
```

To resolve this error:

> Add the driver dependency at the domain level that enables application redeployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the driver dependency at the domain level, which enables application redeployment.
```

== Understand Common Throws

Here is a list of common throw messages and how to interpret them.

* IBM-MQ:ACK

 There was an error in the context of the acknowledgment of an inflight message.

* IBM-MQ:CONNECTIVITY

>  The connection is no longer valid, it will be disposed and you can apply a reconnection policy if defined in the application setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The connection is no longer valid. It is disposed of, but you can apply a reconnection policy if defined in the application setup.
```

* IBM-MQ:CONSUMING

>  An error occurred while consuming messages from WMQ that may relate to the absence of a pending message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 An error occurred while consuming messages from WMQ. This error might relate to the absence of a pending message.
```

* IBM-MQ:DESTINATION_NOT_FOUND

 IBM MQ Connector is not able to find or create the destination.

* IBM-MQ:RETRY_EXHAUSTED

>  The maximum number of retries for the operation was reached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The maximum number of retries for the operation is reached.
```

* IBM-MQ:SECURITY

>  Thrown exception in case of security related errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The thrown exception is due to security-related errors.
```

* IBM-MQ:TIMEOUT

>  The timeout for the requested operation was exceeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The timeout for the requested operation is exceeded.
```

* IBM-MQ:ILLEGAL_BODY

>  The message body was invalid or cannot be converted to a supported type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The message body is invalid or cannot be converted to a supported type.
```

* IBM-MQ:PUBLISHING

>  There was an error while publishing to the target queue or topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 There is an error while publishing to the target queue or topic.
```
